{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13800\viewh11820\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Guidelines for seminar abstracts
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Seminar (or colloquium) abstracts play a different role from abstracts for a paper. Both are trying to invite a stranger in: in the case of a paper the invitation is to read, which is an extended, reflective, active self-paced process, and the abstract should, accordingly, present all the most important results of the paper, in outline, with a minimum of jargon and symbols.\
\
By contrast, the purpose of the abstract for a talk is to invite the reader of the abstract to commit an hour or so to sitting and listening. It does not need to include a detailed list of everything that will be discussed in the talk, and need only gesture toward the most interesting result, the one that the speaker hopes the listener will remember.\
\
The abstract should be short, typically one or at most two  paragraphs. Consider writing it in the first person, as opposed to the royal "we", since the point of coming to a live (or even zoom) talk, rather than just reading an article, is to interact with a human being. \
\
All mathematicians, I believe, have had the painful experience of sitting captive in\
an hour's talk of which they understood nothing whatsoever. It is helpful when an abstract indicates what background may or may not be assumed so that listeners can decide if the talk will be a good fit. (This might also prompt you to think more about whom you are hoping to attract to your talk, and therefore what you should include or emphasize in it!) One way to reassure the potential attendee that they will understand at least some large part of the talk is to use phrases such as "I will explain..." or "I will present the background of ..."  or "...the history of..." -- and of course carrying through on this in the talk!\
\
Listeners also hope for some nugget in a talk that they can remember, and perhaps use themselves. Thus the abstract should also indicate what the listener might be able to take away at the end of the hour.\
\
If the work to be described involves others, it is wise to list the collaborators by (full) name in the abstract. They should of course also be mentioned in the talk. One option is to write out your collaborators\'92 names on the board beneath your title and mention the work is joint at the start. Alternatively or in addition, when you state a joint theorem, be prepared to efficiently\
list all authors\'92 last names, alphabetically, abbreviating your own with the first letter of your last name.}